<USER_REQUEST>
read all this requirments and app idea
♠ 
POKER NIGHT  /  USER FLOW SPECIFICATION 
Poker Night 
Complete User Flow & Experience Specification 
Admin • Registered Group Member • New Guest 
DOCUMENT PURPOSE 
This document defines the complete tournament journey from group creation to final results. It explains 
what each user sees, what each user can do, what the system must calculate, and how the three roles 
interact. It is written for product, design, development and QA teams. 
Version 1.0  |  6 August 2026 
1 
Contents 
POKER NIGHT  /  USER FLOW SPECIFICATION 
1. Purpose and Product Model 
2. Roles, Terminology and Permissions 
3. Event Lifecycle and Shared Rules 
4. Admin End-to-End User Flow 
5. Registered Group Member User Flow 
6. Complete New Guest User Flow 
7. Shared Tournament Flows 
8. Screen and Navigation Specification 
9. Contextual Main Button Logic 
10. Notifications and Communication 
11. Privacy, Visibility and Data Projection 
12. Validation, Errors, Recovery and Edge Cases 
13. UX Principles and Design Guidance 
14. End-to-End Acceptance Scenarios 
Appendix A. Sample Event 
Appendix B. Glossary 
2 
1. Purpose and Product Model 
POKER NIGHT  /  USER FLOW SPECIFICATION 
Poker Night is not an online poker game. It does not deal cards, determine hand winners, track pots or show 
a graphical poker table. It manages the real-world event around a physical Texas Hold’em game: invitations, 
attendance, chip preparation, tournament structure, timer, rebuys, add-ons, seating, prize calculations, 
communication and results. 
THE CENTRAL PRODUCT IDEA 
The group is the permanent home. The event is one specific poker night. The live tournament is the 
operational mode used once play begins. 
1.1 The Group 
A group is a private, persistent community of regular players. It contains the group chat, polls, upcoming 
events, completed-event history, reusable tournament presets and saved chip sets. A person may belong to 
more than one group. 
• Group name, image and optional description 
• Registered members 
• Private group chat 
• Polls 
• Upcoming and completed events 
• Saved tournament presets 
• Saved chip sets 
1.2 The Event 
An event is one scheduled poker night created inside a group. It is visible only to that group’s registered 
members, plus invited guests who have the event link, QR code or event code. The event contains the 
invitation, RSVP list, guest slots, check-in, tournament preparation, live state and final results. 
1.3 The Live Tournament 
The live tournament begins only after the admin confirms actual attendance and generates the final 
structure. During play, the system synchronises the timer and permitted information across the admin, 
player, guest and TV views. The app manages the event but remains unaware of cards, pots, physical 
dealer rotation and individual player stack sizes. 
1.4 Recommended Product Navigation 
Area 
Purpose 
Home 
Upcoming event, active tournament, recent group activity and next 
required action. 
Chat 
Permanent group chat for registered members. 
3 
POKER NIGHT  /  USER FLOW SPECIFICATION 
4 
Area Purpose 
Events Upcoming and completed poker nights. 
Polls Group decisions such as date, time, buy-in or location. 
History Completed events and basic non-financial statistics. 
Settings Group defaults, saved chip sets and tournament presets. 
2. Roles, Terminology and Permissions 
2.1 Role Names 
Role Definition 
Admin The person who creates the group or event and operates the tournament. 
One admin controls each tournament in the MVP. 
Registered Group Member A signed-in user who belongs to the group, can use chat and polls, can 
RSVP and can follow the live tournament. 
New Guest A person without an account who is invited as someone’s +1, +2, +3 or +4. 
The guest receives limited event-only web access. 
TERMINOLOGY CORRECTION 
A signed-in person who is part of the group chat should not be called a guest. In the product and design, 
call this person a Registered Group Member. “Guest” should mean an unregistered event-only participant. 
 
2.2 High-Level Permission Matrix 
Capability Admin Registered Member New Guest 
Create group Yes No No 
Create/publish event Yes No No 
See private group chat Yes Yes No 
Create/respond to polls Yes Yes No 
RSVP to event Admin may attend Yes No direct RSVP 
Invite guest slots Yes Yes through Going +N No 
Claim guest slot Manual correction No Yes 
Check in Can check anyone in Self check-in Self check-in request 
See live timer/blinds Yes Yes Yes 
Record elimination/rebuy/add-on Yes No No 
See private financial calculation Yes No No 
See chat during event Yes Yes No 
See final paid positions Yes Yes Yes 
See final payout amounts Yes No No 
2.3 Role Projection Rule 
POKER NIGHT  /  USER FLOW SPECIFICATION 
Permissions must be enforced by the backend, not by hiding buttons in the interface. The same tournament 
record may contain private financial information, but the API response for a player or guest must omit that 
information completely. A visual “Host View” toggle is not a security boundary. 
3. Event Lifecycle and Shared Rules 
Status 
Draft 
Meaning 
Visible only to the admin. Event may be edited or deleted. 
Published 
Visible to group members. Event card is posted and pinned in the 
group chat. 
RSVP Open 
Members choose Going, Going +1/+2/+3/+4, Maybe or Can’t 
Come. 
Check-in Open 
Registered members and guests may request check-in. Admin 
confirms attendance and seats. 
Ready 
Final attendance and chip inventory are confirmed. Final 
tournament structure is generated. 
Live 
Timer and tournament operations are active. 
Rebuy + Add-on Break 
Clock paused. Rebuys and late registration close. Admin records 
final rebuys/add-ons and confirms the final Prize Pool. 
Final Table 
If the game used multiple tables, all nine remaining players are 
randomly redrawn. 
Finished 
Results are confirmed and stored in group history. 
3.1 RSVP Rules 
• Each registered group member has exactly one active response. 
• Available responses: Going, Going +1, Going +2, Going +3, Going +4, Maybe and Can’t Come. 
• Going +2 means one registered member plus two guest slots, for three expected participants in total. 
• Responses may be changed until one hour before the scheduled start time. 
• The admin may correct or reopen an RSVP when necessary. 
• “Maybe” does not reserve a seat and is not included in the confirmed player count. 
3.2 Check-in Rules 
• A registered member can request self check-in or be checked in by the admin. 
• A guest can request check-in only after claiming a valid guest slot. 
• No player receives a table and seat until check-in is confirmed. 
• The admin may check in a player or guest manually. 
• Late registration closes permanently at the end of the selected rebuy level, normally Level 6. 
5 
3.3 Tournament Structure Rules 
POKER NIGHT  /  USER FLOW SPECIFICATION 
• The final structure is generated from actual attendance, selected duration and the physical chip set. 
• Level durations may only be 10, 15 or 20 minutes. 
• The starting stack and opening blinds are calculated together; there is no universal fixed starting stack. 
• Blind values must be practical with the chips in play. The small blind does not have to equal exactly half 
the big blind. 
• Existing levels are never removed during play. Future levels may be changed or an intermediate future 
level may be inserted only after admin confirmation. 
• The app does not track individual chip stacks. Average stack is derived from total chips in play divided 
by active players. 
3.4 Financial Visibility Rules 
• Before the rebuy/add-on break is settled, members and guests see “Estimated Prize Pool”. 
• After settlement, members and guests see “Prize Pool”. 
• Players and guests never see individual payout amounts, organizer percentage, organizer amount, 
rebuy totals or add-on totals. 
• After the tournament, all paid positions are visible, without money amounts. 
• The admin privately sees the complete calculation and payout amounts. 
• Currency symbols are hidden in the primary interface. Display “15” or “15 + 5”, not “€15”. 
4. Admin End-to-End User Flow 
4.1 Admin Entry and Home 
After signing in, the admin lands on Home. The page should not be a generic dashboard full of data; it 
should identify the next required action. 
• Active tournament, if one exists 
• Next upcoming event 
• Pending guest or player check-ins 
• Confirmed attendance 
• Latest group message and latest poll 
• Primary actions: Create Event and Start Cash Game 
4.2 Create or Open a Group 
→ Select Create Group. 
→ Enter group name, optional image and optional description. 
→ System creates a private group invitation link, group code and QR code. 
→ Admin shares the invitation with regular players. 
→ Registered players join and gain access to Chat, Events, Polls and History. 
6 
POKER NIGHT  /  USER FLOW SPECIFICATION 
7 
4.3 Create a Tournament Event 
The admin taps “Create Event”. Creation should be a short guided wizard rather than one long settings 
page. 
Step 1 — Event Details 
Field Behaviour 
Tournament name Required. Example: Friday Poker Night. 
Date Required. 
Start time Required. 
Location Optional. May be text, address or private note visible only to 
confirmed participants. 
Buy-in Required numeric value, displayed without currency symbol. 
Target duration Required. Default 3.5 hours; options 3, 3.5, 4, 4.5, 5, 5.5 and 6 
hours. 
Step 2 — Tournament Options 
Option Rule 
Rebuys On by default. Only after elimination. Unlimited by default. 
Rebuy closes End of selected level; default end of Level 6. 
Rebuy cost Defaults to original buy-in. 
Add-on Admin selects yes/no and price. Maximum one per active player. 
KO bounty No bounty or bounty amount. Bounty money is separate from the 
normal Prize Pool. 
Ante preference Let Poker Night recommend, No ante, Big blind ante or Individual 
ante. 
Equipment, drinks & snacks Private organizer percentage; never shown to players and never 
called rake. 
Step 3 — Event Preview and Publish 
Before publishing, the admin previews the exact card that group members will see. The card should be 
concise, friendly and readable in the chat feed. 
SAMPLE GROUP EVENT CARD 
♠️ Friday Poker Night 

 Friday, 14 August 

 20:00 

 Campo Grande 

 Buy-in: 15 

 Rebuys until end of Level 6 
➕ Add-on available 

 KO Bounty: 5 
POKER NIGHT  /  USER FLOW SPECIFICATION 
⏱ Target duration: 3h 30m 
When the admin taps Publish Event, the system must: 
• Add the event to the group Events tab. 
• Post and pin the event card in the group chat. 
• Notify group members. 
• Open RSVP responses. 
4.4 Monitor RSVPs 
The admin sees a live attendance summary separated into confirmed members, guest slots, Maybe, Can’t 
Come and No Response. The interface must show both people and seats; one Going +2 response 
represents three expected players. 
Category 
Meaning 
Confirmed members 
Registered members who selected Going or Going +N. 
Confirmed guest slots 
All guest slots created by Going +1 through Going +4. 
Maybe 
Not counted in the confirmed player total. 
Can’t Come 
Visible but excluded from preparation. 
No response 
Members who have not yet answered. 
Expected attendance 
Confirmed registered members plus confirmed guest slots. 
4.5 Configure the Physical Chip Set 
Chip configuration may be prepared before the event or shortly before check-in closes. The admin chooses 
one of three paths. 
Option A — Saved Chip Set 
Select a reusable chip set already stored in the group, including colours, values and optional exact 
quantities. 
Option B — Exact Inventory 
• Select or create each chip colour. 
• Indicate whether the chip is printed or unnumbered. 
• Enter a unique value. 
• Enter exact quantity available. 
• System guarantees that the proposed starting stacks, rebuy reserve and add-on reserve fit the 
inventory. 
Option C — Quick Automatic Setup 
• Select available colours. 
• Indicate numbered or unnumbered chips. 
• Enter printed values where applicable. 
• Drag colours from most available to least available. 
• For unnumbered chips, Poker Night proposes unique values; two colours may never share a value. 
8 
• System shows required quantities and asks the admin to confirm that enough chips exist. 
4.6 Event-Day Preparation 
POKER NIGHT  /  USER FLOW SPECIFICATION 
On the day of the tournament, Home and the event page should present a preparation checklist. The admin 
should never have to remember the correct sequence. 
• Review event information and any recent changes. 
• Open check-in. 
• Confirm chip set and inventory. 
• Review expected late arrivals. 
• Prepare starting stacks. 
• Reserve rebuy and add-on chips. 
• Open TV Mode if required. 
• Test voice announcements. 
4.7 Check-in Management 
→ Admin taps Open Check-in. 
→ Registered members and guests see the Check In action. 
→ Requests appear in the admin queue. 
→ Admin confirms each request, or checks a person in manually. 
→ The system assigns a table and seat only after confirmation. 
→ The admin can view confirmed-but-absent people, pending guests, Maybe arrivals and expected late 
arrivals. 
4.8 Generate the Final Tournament Structure 
The event may have a provisional recommendation earlier, but the final structure is generated only when the 
admin confirms actual attendance and final chip availability. 
Input 
Use 
Checked-in players 
Primary player count used for the final calculation. 
Expected late arrivals 
May be included if the admin confirms they will arrive before late 
registration closes. 
Target duration 
Selected event duration. 
Physical chip set 
Colours, values and availability. 
Rebuys and add-ons 
Expected additional chips and timing. 
Ante preference 
Recommended or admin-selected format. 
The generated result must include: 
• Starting stack and opening blinds 
• Starting depth in big blinds 
• Full blind progression 
• Level duration of 10, 15 or 20 minutes 
• Starting-stack chip recipe 
• Rebuy stack recipe, which may use larger denominations later while preserving the same total value 
• Estimated add-on recommendation 
• Ante type and activation level 
9 
• Number of tables and random seat assignment 
• Initial dealer position 
POKER NIGHT  /  USER FLOW SPECIFICATION 
• Estimated finishing window 
• Inventory warnings and colour-up instructions 
RECOMMENDED STRUCTURE EXAMPLE 
10 players • 3h 30m target 
Starting stack: 10,000 
Opening blinds: 50 / 100 
Starting depth: 100 BB 
Level duration: 15 minutes 
Rebuys close: end of Level 6 
Big blind ante: begins Level 7 
Expected finish: 23:25–23:50 
4.9 Start the Tournament 
→ Admin reviews and confirms the generated structure. 
→ Players receive table and seat assignments. 
→ TV Mode becomes available through its read-only URL/code. 
→ The initial dealer position is displayed and may be announced. 
→ Admin taps Start Tournament. 
→ The timer begins and all connected views synchronise. 
4.10 Admin Live Screen 
The live admin screen must prioritise speed and error prevention. The most-used controls remain visible; 
uncommon or dangerous actions are secondary. 
Always visible 
Secondary menu 
Large timer 
Adjust time 
Destructive / confirmation required 
Restart current level 
Current blinds and ante 
Make announcement 
Finish tournament 
Next blinds 
Edit future structure 
Cancel tournament 
Players remaining 
Rebuy/add-on management 
Average stack 
TV Mode  
Prize Pool status 
Undo recent action 
Pause/resume 
Seat management  
Next level 
4.11 Player Actions During Play 
The admin opens Players, selects one person and sees only actions valid for that person and tournament 
phase. 
• View or change seat 
• Eliminate player 
• Eliminate and rebuy, if the rebuy period is open 
10 
• Undo elimination 
• Record one add-on during the settlement break 
POKER NIGHT  /  USER FLOW SPECIFICATION 
• Mark final position 
4.12 Elimination and Rebuy Flow 
→ Admin selects a player and taps Eliminate. 
→ Before the rebuy deadline, the system asks: Leave Tournament or Rebuy? 
→ If Rebuy is selected, the player normally remains in the same seat. 
→ The player receives a rebuy stack with the same total value as the original starting stack. 
→ The physical rebuy stack may use larger denominations that are practical for the current level. 
→ After the deadline, the player is permanently eliminated and their finishing position is stored. 
→ Every elimination and rebuy action can be undone. 
4.13 End-of-Rebuy and Add-on Break 
This is a dedicated operational flow, not an ordinary timed break. The app guides the admin through each 
required task. 
→ The selected rebuy level ends, normally Level 6. 
→ The timer pauses automatically. 
→ Rebuys and late registration close permanently. 
→ No new player can be added. 
→ Admin records any final valid rebuy from a hand that began before the deadline. 
→ Poker Night calculates the recommended add-on stack from average stack, big blind, remaining players, 
total chips and target finish. 
→ Admin selects each active player who purchases the one permitted add-on. 
→ Poker Night displays chip-exchange and colour-up instructions. 
→ Admin confirms ante activation or keeps antes off. 
→ The final Prize Pool and private payouts are recalculated. 
→ Admin confirms settlement complete and manually starts the next level. 
4.14 Live Structure Adjustments 
The system may recommend changes when actual pace differs materially from the target, but it never 
changes the tournament automatically. 
• Future levels may change from 20 to 15 minutes, 15 to 10 minutes, 10 to 15 minutes or 15 to 20 
minutes. 
• An intermediate future blind level may be inserted. 
• Future blind growth may be softened or accelerated. 
• Ante activation may be moved earlier or later. 
• Existing or completed levels are never removed. 
• The admin sees old structure, proposed structure, current predicted finish and proposed predicted finish 
before confirmation. 
4.15 Table Balancing 
The interface uses clear lists, not a graphical poker table. When tables become unbalanced, the system 
proposes a move and waits for admin confirmation. 
11 
POKER NIGHT  /  USER FLOW SPECIFICATION 
EXAMPLE MOVE 
Move Sarah from Table 2, Seat 4 to Table 1, Seat 7. 
Actions: Confirm Move • Choose Another Move • Move Manually 
4.16 Final Table 
If the tournament began with multiple tables, the final-table redraw occurs when nine players remain. 
→ Timer pauses. 
→ Poker Night randomises all nine seats and the initial dealer position. 
→ Admin reviews the seat list. 
→ Players receive the updated assignments. 
→ Admin confirms everyone is seated. 
→ Play resumes. The app does not track dealer rotation afterwards. 
4.17 Finish Tournament 
→ Admin confirms the winner and all final positions. 
→ System validates that every paid position has one player. 
→ Admin reviews the private payout calculation and any agreed deal. 
→ Players and guests receive the final paid-position list without amounts. 
→ Event moves to Finished and is stored in group History. 
→ Basic group statistics update. 
5. Registered Group Member User Flow 
5.1 Join the Group 
→ Open group invitation link, group QR code or group code. 
→ Create an account or sign in. 
→ Join the private group. 
→ Gain access to Chat, Events, Polls, History and notifications. 
5.2 Discover the Event 
The member may discover the event through the pinned group-chat card, the Events tab or a notification. All 
important rules are visible before RSVP. 
• Tournament name, date and start time 
12 
• Optional location 
• Buy-in 
POKER NIGHT  /  USER FLOW SPECIFICATION 
• Rebuy closing level and cost 
• Add-on availability and price 
• KO bounty status and amount 
• Target duration 
• Host/admin 
• RSVP deadline 
5.3 RSVP 
→ Member selects one response: Going, Going +1/+2/+3/+4, Maybe or Can’t Come. 
→ Going +N automatically creates N named but unclaimed guest slots. 
→ Member can share the event link, QR code or code with the invited guests. 
→ The response may be changed until one hour before the start time. 
5.4 Pre-Event Experience 
• Receive event updates and RSVP reminders. 
• Use group chat and polls. 
• See whether check-in is open. 
• Review location, start time and tournament rules. 
• See whether invited guest slots have been claimed. 
5.5 Check In 
→ Member arrives and opens the event. 
→ Taps Check In. 
→ The request enters the admin queue. 
→ After admin confirmation, the member receives table and seat. 
→ The main button changes to View My Seat, then Open Live Tournament. 
5.6 Live Registered Member View 
Visible 
Large timer 
Not visible / not permitted 
Admin controls 
Current blinds and ante 
Organizer percentage or amount 
Next blinds 
Rebuy/add-on totals 
Players remaining 
Individual payout amounts 
Average stack 
Individual chip stacks 
Table and seat 
Other players’ private actions 
Estimated Prize Pool, then Prize Pool 
Self-recording elimination/rebuy/add-on 
Announcements 
Chat and polls  
13 
5.7 After Elimination 
POKER NIGHT  /  USER FLOW SPECIFICATION 
An eliminated registered member remains part of the event experience. They may continue to follow the 
timer, players remaining, Prize Pool, announcements, chat and polls. The interface must clearly mark them 
as eliminated without hiding the event. 
5.8 After the Tournament 
• See the winner and every paid finishing position. 
• Do not see payout amounts. 
• See the completed event in group History. 
• See basic group-level non-financial statistics. 
6. Complete New Guest User Flow 
6.1 Receive Event Access 
The new guest receives a shared event link, QR code or event code from a registered member who selected 
Going +1, Going +2, Going +3 or Going +4. No account is required. 
6.2 Open Guest Landing Page 
The guest sees a friendly, event-specific landing page rather than a full application dashboard. 
SAMPLE GUEST LANDING 
You’ve been invited to Friday Poker Night ♠️ 
Friday, 14 August • 20:00 
Campo Grande 
Buy-in: 15 • Rebuys until Level 6 • KO 5 
Primary action: Claim My Guest Place 
6.3 Identify Inviter and Claim Slot 
→ Guest selects “Who invited you?” 
→ System displays only registered members who currently have unclaimed guest slots. 
→ Guest selects one available slot, for example Alex’s Guest 2. 
→ Guest enters their name and confirms. 
→ The slot becomes reserved and cannot be claimed twice. 
→ Admin may correct or remove the reservation. 
6.4 Before Arrival 
The same event link remembers or securely resolves the claimed slot. The guest can see event details, 
inviter, guest name, current check-in status and the Check In button when check-in opens. 
• No access to group chat 
• No access to polls 
• No access to group History or member profiles 
14 
• Optional prompt to create an account and join the group 
6.5 Guest Check-in 
POKER NIGHT  /  USER FLOW SPECIFICATION 
→ Guest arrives and taps Check In. 
→ Admin receives the request. 
→ Admin confirms the guest. 
→ Guest receives table and seat. 
→ Main button changes to Open Live Tournament. 
6.6 Limited Guest Live View 
Guest sees 
Timer 
Guest does not see 
Group chat 
Current blinds and ante 
Polls 
Next blinds 
Group History 
Players remaining 
Admin controls 
Average stack 
Organizer information 
Own table and seat 
Rebuy/add-on totals 
Announcements 
Payout amounts 
Estimated Prize Pool, then Prize Pool 
Individual chip stacks 
6.7 After the Tournament 
• See the winner and all paid positions without money amounts. 
• Optionally create an account. 
• Optionally request to join the group. 
• After admin approval, the guest result may be linked to the new account. 
7. Shared Tournament Flows 
7.1 Invitation and Guest-Slot Logic 
• Only a Going +N response creates guest slots. 
• Each guest slot has a stable identifier, inviter, position number, status and optional guest name. 
• Statuses: Unclaimed, Reserved, Check-in Requested, Checked In, Cancelled. 
• An inviter changing Going +2 to Going +1 must not silently remove a checked-in guest. The admin must 
resolve the conflict. 
• Duplicate slot claims are blocked server-side. 
• A guest may switch to another free slot only before check-in or with admin approval. 
7.2 Contextual Main Button 
Each event page should present one dominant next action. This is the simplest way to make the application 
feel intelligent and reduce navigation errors. 
Role 
Admin 
State 
Draft 
Primary button 
Edit Event 
Admin 
Published 
Review RSVPs 
15 
POKER NIGHT  /  USER FLOW SPECIFICATION 
16 
Role State Primary button 
Admin Check-in available Open Check-in 
Admin Attendance confirmed Generate Final Structure 
Admin Ready Start Tournament 
Admin Live Manage Tournament 
Admin Rebuy break Complete Rebuy & Add-on Break 
Admin Finished View Results 
Registered Member No RSVP Respond to Invitation 
Registered Member RSVP submitted Update RSVP 
Registered Member Check-in open Check In 
Registered Member Check-in pending Waiting for Confirmation 
Registered Member Checked in View My Seat 
Registered Member Live Open Live Tournament 
Registered Member Finished View Results 
New Guest Unclaimed Claim My Guest Place 
New Guest Slot reserved View Invitation 
New Guest Check-in open Check In 
New Guest Check-in pending Waiting for Confirmation 
New Guest Checked in View My Seat 
New Guest Live Open Live Tournament 
New Guest Finished View Results 
7.3 TV Mode 
TV Mode is a separate read-only route opened through a TV code, QR code or direct URL. It contains no 
controls and no private payout data. 
• Tournament name 
• Very large timer 
• Current blinds and ante 
• Next level 
• Players remaining 
• Average stack 
• Estimated Prize Pool or Prize Pool 
• Current visual announcement 
• No payout amounts, organizer information, chat or admin controls 
7.4 Voice Announcements 
Voice announcements are English-only in the initial release. The admin manually selects one Audio Master 
device; other devices remain silent. 
• Tournament starting 
• New level and blinds 
• Five minutes remaining 
• One minute remaining 
POKER NIGHT  /  USER FLOW SPECIFICATION 
17 
• Rebuys closed 
• Final table 
• Winner 
• Initial dealer name when generated 
7.5 Chat and Polls 
Chat and polls belong to the permanent group, not the unregistered guest experience. An event may 
automatically create a pinned event card in chat and may link to a related poll. Registered members remain 
in chat after elimination. 
8. Screen and Navigation Specification 
Admin screen Purpose 
Home Next action, active/upcoming event, pending check-ins, recent 
chat/poll. 
Group Chat Messages, pinned event cards and event links. 
Events Upcoming, live and completed events. 
Create Event Wizard Event details, options, preview and publish. 
RSVP Dashboard Members, guest slots, Maybe, Can’t Come and No Response. 
Chip Set Saved, exact inventory and quick automatic modes. 
Check-in Queue Pending requests, checked-in people and absences. 
Final Structure Review Stacks, blinds, levels, chips, tables and expected finish. 
Live Tournament Timer and primary admin controls. 
Players Check-in, seating, elimination, rebuy, add-on and undo. 
Structure Upcoming levels and approved future edits. 
Rebuy/Add-on Break Guided settlement workflow. 
Prize Calculation Private collected amount, organizer amount, Prize Pool and 
payouts. 
Final Table Redraw Randomised nine-player seat list and dealer position. 
Results Final positions and private payout confirmation. 
History Completed events and basic statistics. 
8.1 Registered Member Screens 
Member screen Purpose 
Group Home Chat, events, polls and history. 
Event Details Rules, RSVP and updates. 
RSVP Single response selection including Going +N. 
Guest Slots Status of slots created by the member. 
POKER NIGHT  /  USER FLOW SPECIFICATION 
18 
Member screen Purpose 
Check-in Request, pending and confirmed states. 
Seat Table and seat assignment. 
Live Tournament Timer, blinds, average stack, Prize Pool, chat and polls. 
Results Paid positions without money. 
8.2 New Guest Screens 
Guest screen Purpose 
Code / Link / QR Entry Resolve a valid event invitation. 
Guest Landing Basic event information and Claim My Guest Place. 
Choose Inviter Only people with free guest slots. 
Choose Slot Available Guest 1/2/3/4 positions. 
Guest Details Name entry and reservation confirmation. 
Check-in Request, pending and confirmed states. 
Seat Table and seat. 
Limited Live View Timer, blinds, average stack, Prize Pool and announcements. 
Results Paid positions without money. 
Create Account Optional conversion to registered member. 
8.3 Required System States 
• Loading and skeleton states 
• Empty group, no events and no messages 
• No RSVP yet 
• Invalid, expired or revoked code 
• Guest slot already taken 
• Check-in closed 
• Waiting for admin confirmation 
• Offline admin mode 
• Disconnected player/guest/TV view 
• Reconnected and synchronised 
• Tournament paused 
• Tournament cancelled or rescheduled 
• Action failed and safe retry 
9. Contextual Main Button Logic 
The main button must be calculated from role, event state, RSVP state and check-in state. It must never 
offer an action that is unavailable or irrelevant. Secondary navigation remains available, but the primary 
button should always answer “What should I do next?” 
DESIGN RULE 
POKER NIGHT  /  USER FLOW SPECIFICATION 
One event, one dominant next action. The app should not make users choose among several equally 
prominent buttons. 
9.1 Priority Rules 
→ Blocking states take priority: invalid invitation, event cancelled, check-in closed or action awaiting admin 
approval. 
→ Before RSVP, the member sees Respond to Invitation. 
→ After RSVP but before check-in, the member sees Update RSVP or View Event. 
→ When check-in opens, Check In overrides ordinary event actions. 
→ After check-in, View My Seat is shown until the tournament becomes live. 
→ During play, Open Live Tournament is shown. 
→ After finish, View Results is shown. 
10. Notifications and Communication 
10.1 Admin Notifications 
• New RSVP or RSVP change 
• Guest slot claimed or released 
• Check-in request 
• Player or guest arrived 
• Event starting soon 
• Tournament ready to generate 
• Rebuy period ending 
• Rebuy/add-on settlement required 
• Final-table redraw required 
• Incomplete final results 
• Realtime or recovery warning 
10.2 Registered Member Notifications 
• New event published 
• Event details changed 
• RSVP reminder 
• RSVP closes in one hour 
• Check-in opened 
• Check-in confirmed 
• Seat assigned 
• Tournament starting 
• Rebuys closed 
• Prize Pool confirmed 
• Final table reached 
• Tournament finished 
19 
10.3 New Guest Updates 
POKER NIGHT  /  USER FLOW SPECIFICATION 
An unregistered guest does not receive permanent group notifications. Event updates are shown through 
the event page and may also use a browser notification only after explicit permission. 
• Guest slot confirmed 
• Check-in opened 
• Check-in confirmed 
• Seat assigned 
• Tournament starting 
• Rebuys closed 
• Final table reached 
• Tournament finished 
10.4 Event Change Behaviour 
When the admin changes date, time, location, buy-in, bounty or another visible event rule after publication, 
the system must: 
• Store the change in the audit timeline. 
• Notify all affected registered members. 
• Show the updated value prominently on the event page. 
• Mark important changes in the pinned chat card. 
• Require the admin to confirm whether existing RSVPs remain valid for a major date/time change. 
11. Privacy, Visibility and Data Projection 
Information 
Admin 
Event date/time/location 
Yes 
Registered Member 
New Guest 
TV 
Yes 
Yes, event only 
Yes where 
appropriate 
Buy-in/rebuy/add-on/bounty rules 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
No need on 
TV 
Timer/blinds/ante 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Players remaining/average stack 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Estimated Prize Pool / Prize Pool 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Organizer percentage/amount 
Yes 
Yes 
No 
No 
Rebuy/add-on totals 
No 
Yes 
No 
No 
Individual payout amounts 
No 
Yes 
No 
No 
Paid finishing positions 
No 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes after finish 
Yes after finish 
Optional 
after finish 
Group chat/polls 
Admin controls/audit log 
Yes 
No 
No 
Yes 
No 
No 
11.1 Location Privacy 
No 
Location is optional. The admin may choose whether the complete address is visible immediately to all 
group members or only to confirmed participants. A public-facing guest landing page should reveal only the 
location information explicitly approved for that event. 
20 
11.2 No Individual Stack Tracking 
POKER NIGHT  /  USER FLOW SPECIFICATION 
The system must not ask the admin or players to maintain every player’s current chip stack. It tracks total 
chips created by entries, rebuys and add-ons, then calculates average stack from total chips divided by 
active players. 
12. Validation, Errors, Recovery and Edge Cases 
12.1 Account and Group 
• Invalid email, weak password, duplicate account and Google sign-in failure 
• Expired, revoked or already-used group invitation 
• User already belongs to the group 
• Admin attempts to delete a group with an active tournament 
12.2 Event and RSVP 
• Start time in the past 
• Missing required event name, date, time, buy-in or duration 
• RSVP submitted after the one-hour deadline 
• Member reduces guest count below the number of already claimed or checked-in guests 
• Event cancelled or rescheduled after RSVP 
• Duplicate submission caused by repeated taps 
12.3 Guest Access 
• Invalid, expired or revoked event code 
• QR points to a non-existent or inaccessible event 
• Inviter has no free guest slots 
• Slot claimed by another guest during confirmation 
• Guest tries to access chat, polls or another event 
• Guest clears local browser storage and must safely re-identify the reservation 
12.4 Chip and Structure Generation 
• Duplicate chip values are rejected. 
• Insufficient inventory produces a shortage warning and alternative recommendations. 
• Blind values that cannot be posted practically are rejected. 
• Generated levels must never use a duration other than 10, 15 or 20 minutes. 
• The admin must be able to regenerate or edit inputs without losing event attendance. 
12.5 Live Tournament 
• Accidental double elimination or duplicate rebuy is blocked or easily undone. 
• Admin closes or refreshes the page; the active tournament recovers locally. 
• Temporary internet loss; admin continues locally while other views show connection status. 
• After reconnection, queued admin actions synchronise without duplication. 
• Timer drift is corrected from the authoritative timestamp, not by trusting every device’s local countdown. 
• A player arrives after late registration closes; the system prevents addition. 
21 
• The tournament reaches nine players but began with one table; no unnecessary redraw occurs. 
12.6 Safe Destructive Actions 
POKER NIGHT  /  USER FLOW SPECIFICATION 
• Finish Tournament requires confirmation and review of final positions. 
• Cancel Tournament requires confirmation and a reason. 
• Restart Level requires confirmation and displays its exact effect. 
• Undo shows the action that will be reversed. 
13. UX Principles and Design Guidance 
13.1 Product Principles 
• One dominant next action per user and state. 
• The system does the calculation; the admin approves important decisions. 
• Registered users get social features; new guests get a simple event-only path. 
• The live admin experience prioritises speed, clarity and error prevention. 
• The player and guest experiences are simpler than the admin experience. 
• TV Mode is presentation-only. 
• No virtual poker table, cards, pot graphics or individual stack tracking. 
13.2 Visual Hierarchy 
• Timer, blinds and primary action have the strongest hierarchy during live play. 
• Gold is used selectively for primary actions and selected states, not for every border. 
• Purple may identify live/realtime states; green confirms success; red is reserved for destructive actions. 
• Use one consistent professional icon family; do not use emoji as interface icons. 
• Event cards may use restrained emojis in content because they improve readability and warmth. 
• Mobile layouts are designed independently, not as compressed desktop pages. 
13.3 Mobile Live Admin 
• Timer remains visible at the top. 
• Pause/resume and Next Level remain thumb-accessible. 
• Player actions open in bottom sheets. 
• Secondary actions remain behind Manage Tournament. 
• Dangerous actions remain visually separated. 
14. End-to-End Acceptance Scenarios 
14.1 Admin Happy Path 
→ Admin creates Friday Night Poker group and invites members. 
→ Admin creates an event for Friday at 20:00, buy-in 15, rebuy close Level 6, add-on enabled, KO bounty 
5, target 3.5 hours. 
→ Event appears in Events, is pinned in Chat and notifies members. 
→ Members submit RSVP responses and create guest slots. 
→ Admin configures an unnumbered chip set and confirms suggested values. 
→ On event day, admin opens check-in and confirms arrivals. 
22 
→ Admin generates the final structure from actual attendance and chip availability. 
POKER NIGHT  /  USER FLOW SPECIFICATION 
→ Admin starts the tournament and all views synchronise. 
→ Admin records eliminations and rebuys. 
→ At the end of Level 6, the system enters the settlement break and blocks new players. 
→ Admin records add-ons, confirms chip exchanges and confirms the final Prize Pool. 
→ Admin continues the tournament, confirms a final-table redraw at nine players and records final 
positions. 
→ Players and guests see paid positions without money; History updates. 
14.2 Registered Member Happy Path 
→ User joins the group and accesses Chat, Events and Polls. 
→ User sees the pinned event card and chooses Going +2. 
→ Two guest slots are created and the user shares the link. 
→ User receives a check-in notification, checks in and receives a seat. 
→ User follows the timer, blinds, players remaining, average stack and Prize Pool. 
→ User uses chat and polls during the tournament. 
→ After elimination, user continues following the event. 
→ After finish, user sees all paid positions without amounts. 
14.3 New Guest Happy Path 
→ Guest opens the event QR/link without creating an account. 
→ Guest selects the inviter and an available guest slot. 
→ Guest enters a name and reserves the slot. 
→ When check-in opens, guest requests check-in. 
→ Admin confirms and the guest receives a table and seat. 
→ Guest follows the limited live view and announcements. 
→ After finish, guest sees paid positions without money. 
→ Guest may create an account and request group membership. 
14.4 Critical Failure Tests 
• Two guests attempt to claim the same slot at the same time; only one succeeds. 
• A guest tries to open group chat through a copied URL; access is denied. 
• The admin refreshes during Level 4; timer and tournament state recover correctly. 
• Internet drops during play; the admin continues locally and synchronises once reconnected. 
• A generated structure attempts an 11-minute level; validation prevents it. 
• A member attempts to self-record a rebuy; the backend denies the action. 
• A public or guest response requests organizer amount or payout amounts; the backend omits them. 
• A new player is added after the rebuy deadline; the system blocks the action. 
Appendix A. Sample Event 
A.1 Published Event 
♠️ FRIDAY POKER NIGHT 
23 
POKER NIGHT  /  USER FLOW SPECIFICATION 
24 

 Friday, 14 August 

 20:00 

 Campo Grande 

 Buy-in: 15 

 Rebuys: only after elimination, until end of Level 6 
➕ Add-on: available, maximum one per active player 

 KO Bounty: 5 
⏱ Target duration: 3h 30m 
 
RSVP: Going • Going +1/+2/+3/+4 • Maybe • Can’t Come 
 
A.2 Example Attendance 
Person Response 
Alex Going +2 
Sarah Going 
Marco Maybe 
Daniel Can’t Come 
Confirmed total 2 registered players + 2 guest slots = 4 participants 
A.3 Example Final Structure 
Item Generated result 
Players 10 
Target duration 3h 30m 
Starting stack 10,000 
Opening blinds 50 / 100 
Starting depth 100 BB 
Level duration 15 minutes 
Rebuys close End of Level 6 
Ante Big blind ante from Level 7 
Expected finish 23:25–23:50 
Appendix B. Glossary 
Term Meaning 
Admin Person who creates and runs the group/event/tournament. 
Registered Group Member Signed-in user with permanent access to group chat, events and 
polls. 
POKER NIGHT  /  USER FLOW SPECIFICATION 
25 
Term Meaning 
New Guest Unregistered event-only participant invited through a +N slot. 
Group Permanent private community. 
Event One scheduled poker night inside a group. 
RSVP Attendance response. 
Guest slot A temporary place created by Going +1 through Going +4. 
Check-in Arrival confirmation required before seat assignment. 
Tournament structure Starting stack, blinds, level durations, antes and related chip plan. 
Rebuy A new stack after elimination during the rebuy period. 
Re-entry Separate optional entry after elimination; secondary to the normal 
rebuy flow. 
Add-on One optional additional stack available to each active player at the 
end of the rebuy period. 
KO bounty Separate amount paid to the player who eliminates another player. 
Prize Pool The amount displayed to players after the private organizer amount 
is removed. 
TV Mode Read-only large-screen presentation. 
Audio Master Single device selected to play voice announcements. 
Final-table redraw Random seating of nine remaining players when the tournament 
began with multiple tables. 
 
FINAL PRODUCT TEST 
At every moment, each person should see only the information and action relevant to their role and 
current state. The admin controls the tournament, registered members participate in the group and event, 
and new guests follow a minimal event-only path. Complex tournament mathematics stays behind the 
scenes. 
 
POKER NIGHT 
Poker Night MVP — Human Product Guide 
Detailed Product Guide 
A clear, non-technical explanation of what Poker Night does and how people 
use it 
MVP Scope v2.0 
Web-first MVP • One administrator • Tournament + minimal cash mode • No 
Spotify 
1 
Contents 
Poker Night MVP — Human Product Guide 
1. What Poker Night is 
2. Who uses it 
3. What is included now 
4. How a tournament works 
5. How the automatic structure works 
6. Invitations and guests 
7. Running the game 
8. TV and voice 
9. Chat, polls and notifications 
10. History and statistics 
11. Cash games 
12. What is intentionally postponed 
13. Example poker night 
2 
1. What Poker Night Is 
Poker Night MVP — Human Product Guide 
Poker Night is a website that helps one person organise and run a private Texas Hold’em game. It is designed for home 
poker nights where the host currently has to manage messages, attendance, chips, blinds, a timer, rebuys, seating and 
prizes manually. 
The host gives Poker Night a small amount of information. The app then prepares a tournament that fits the number of 
people, the available time and the physical chips that actually exist in the host’s poker set. 
The simple idea 
The host decides what kind of poker night they want. Poker Night handles the organisation and suggests the 
structure. The host always makes the final decision. 
2. Who Uses It 
Administrator 
There is one administrator for each game. This is usually the host. The administrator creates the game, chooses the 
settings, confirms guests, starts the timer and records everything that happens during the tournament. 
Registered player 
A registered player can join the private group, answer invitations, use chat and polls, receive notifications, check in and 
view the live tournament from their phone. 
Guest 
A guest does not need an account. They open the tournament website with a code or QR link, select who invited them, 
choose the correct guest slot and enter their name. After the host confirms them, they can see their table, seat, timer 
and other basic game information. Guests cannot use chat or polls unless they create an account. 
3. What Is Included Now 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
One responsive website that works on phones, tablets, laptops and TV browsers. 
Private groups, invitations, guest places and check-in. 
An automatic tournament generator based on players, duration and chips. 
A live timer with blinds, ante, players remaining and average stack. 
Rebuys, add-ons, knockouts, seating and final-table redraw. 
A private prize calculator for the host. 
A public TV page opened with a code or link. 
Simple English voice announcements. 
Group chat, polls and browser/in-app notifications. 
Group game history and a few simple player statistics. 
A basic cash-game section. 
What is not included in the first version 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Spotify 
Native iPhone and Android apps 
Built-in Chromecast or AirPlay buttons 
More than one administrator per game 
Advanced player graphs and financial statistics 
Complex social features or achievements 
3 
Payment processing 
 
Advanced cash-game rules 
Poker Night MVP — Human Product Guide 
4. How a Tournament Works 
The main tournament journey 
Step 1 — Create the game 
The host enters the name, date, starting time, location, expected number of players, buy-in and desired duration. The 
normal duration is 3.5 hours, but the host can choose from 3 to 6 hours in half-hour steps. 
Step 2 — Describe the chips 
The host can choose a saved chip set, enter the exact number of every chip, or use a faster setup. In the fast setup, 
they choose the available colours and arrange them from most available to least available. If the chips have no printed 
numbers, Poker Night suggests a different value for each colour. 
Step 3 — Choose optional rules 
The host can enable rebuys, an add-on, a knockout bounty and an ante. Rebuys normally close at the end of Level 6. 
An add-on is available once per active player. If an ante is used, big blind ante is the normal choice. 
Step 4 — Receive the proposal 
Poker Night suggests the starting stack, exact chips in each stack, opening blinds, every future blind level, level 
duration, rebuy stacks, add-on amount, chip exchanges, expected finish and prize distribution. The host reviews the 
proposal and can regenerate or edit it before confirming. 
Step 5 — Invite people 
Registered players receive the game invitation and choose one answer: Going, Maybe, Can’t Come, Going +1, Going 
+2, Going +3 or Going +4. The guest number is part of the answer, not a separate question. 
Step 6 — Check in and sit down 
Players can check themselves in, or the host can do it. Guests use the shared code, select the person who invited them 
and choose an unused guest place. The host confirms the guest. Poker Night then prepares the tables and seats. 
Step 7 — Run the tournament 
The host starts the timer. Every connected player and TV sees the same current blinds and remaining time. Only the 
host can pause, continue, record eliminations, grant rebuys or add-ons, and confirm seat moves. 
Step 8 — Close rebuys and handle add-ons 
When the last rebuy level finishes, the timer pauses. There is no fixed break countdown. The host takes as much time 
as needed to record final rebuys, choose who purchased an add-on, exchange old chips and confirm the ante. No new 
players may join after this moment. The host starts the next level when everyone is ready. 
Step 9 — Final table and result 
If the game had more than one table, Poker Night pauses when nine players remain and creates a completely new 
random final-table seating plan. It also chooses the initial dealer position. At the end, the host records the finishing order 
and publishes the podium. Players never see prize amounts after the game. 
4 
5. How the Automatic Structure Works 
Poker Night MVP — Human Product Guide 
Poker Night does not force every game to start with the same stack or blinds. A stack of 5,000 can be deep at 25/50, 
but far too deep at 5/10. The app therefore solves the stack and blinds together. 
It first checks which blind values are easy to pay with the available chips. A blind such as 20/50 is acceptable when it is 
simpler than 25/50. The small blind does not always have to be exactly half the big blind. The important thing is that 
players can follow the numbers easily and post the blinds without constant change. 
Every level lasts exactly 10, 15 or 20 minutes. Normally, the complete tournament uses one level duration. The app 
estimates how many levels fit inside the chosen duration, how quickly blinds need to grow and roughly when the 
tournament should end. 
Changes during the game 
The host can still change the future structure during play. Poker Night can estimate that the tournament is finishing too 
early or too late and suggest speeding up or slowing down. A speed-up can shorten future levels or add an ante. A 
slow-down can make future levels longer or add an extra intermediate blind level. The active level never changes, and 
the host must approve every adjustment. 
6. Invitations and Guests 
Every group has a private code. Every tournament also has a code and shareable link. The tournament page offers a 
normal player route, a guest route and a TV display route. 
Guest example 
1. Maria answers Going +2. 
2. Her two friends open the tournament link. 
3. Each friend chooses Maria as the inviter. 
4. One chooses Maria’s Guest 1 and the other chooses Guest 2. 
5. They enter their names and request check-in. 
6. The host confirms both guests. 
7. Each guest receives a table and seat on the website. 
Players may change their attendance response until one hour before the game. The host can still manage attendance 
before late registration closes. After the rebuy period ends, nobody new can enter. 
7. Running the Game 
What the host sees 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Large timer and level controls 
Current and next blinds 
Player list and seating 
Buttons for elimination, rebuy and add-on 
Estimated finishing time 
Speed Up, Slow Down and Edit Future Levels 
Prize calculation and chip-exchange instructions 
Undo/correction controls 
What players see 
 
 
 
Timer, blinds and ante 
Next level 
Players remaining 
5 
Poker Night MVP — Human Product Guide 
 
 
 
 
Average stack 
Their own seat 
Announcements 
The total Prize Pool while the game is active 
Players do not see who rebought, who purchased an add-on, the organizer percentage or individual payout amounts. 
Recovery if something goes wrong 
The host’s browser saves the active tournament on the device. If the page refreshes or the internet disappears 
temporarily, the host can restore the timer and game state. Other players and TVs need an internet connection and 
show the last known information until they reconnect. 
8. TV and Voice 
TV Mode is simply a clean website page. The host opens it on a TV browser with the code or mirrors it from another 
device. There is no special Spotify or casting integration in the first version. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Large timer 
Current blinds and ante 
Next level 
Players remaining 
Average stack 
Prize Pool during the game 
Announcements 
Final-table seating and final podium 
The host manually chooses one device to speak. It uses a normal English browser voice for announcements such as a 
new level, five minutes remaining, one minute remaining, rebuys closed, final table, dealer position and winner. 
Eliminated-player names are optional and off by default. 
9. Chat, Polls and Notifications 
Chat 
Registered members have a simple group chat and can also have a chat connected to a specific tournament. Guests 
cannot use chat. The host can remove inappropriate messages. 
Polls 
The host can ask members to vote on the date, start time, buy-in, knockout format, duration, location or another 
question. Poll results can help Poker Night suggest a saved tournament preset. 
Notifications 
Players receive an in-app notification and, when their browser allows it, a browser push notification. Examples include a 
new tournament, an RSVP deadline, a new poll, a confirmed seat and a game starting soon. 
10. History and Statistics 
The group keeps a simple list of completed games. Members can see the date, game name, attendance and final 
positions. They do not see prize amounts. 
The first version keeps only five basic player statistics: games played, wins, podium finishes, average finish and 
knockouts. It does not include personal profit, ROI, detailed rebuy history, graphs or a separate personal game-history 
page. 
6 
11. Cash Games 
Poker Night MVP — Human Product Guide 
The simpler cash-game journey 
Cash Poker is a separate, much simpler section. The host creates a session with fixed blinds, adds players and seats 
them, and starts a normal time counter. The blinds do not increase. 
The host records the chip value issued as each player’s buy-in and any later top-ups. When a player leaves, the host 
enters the final chip value returned. At the end, Poker Night checks that the total value issued matches the total value 
returned. 
These records describe chips, not whether anyone actually paid cash. Poker Night does not process or confirm 
payments. Advanced cash features such as waiting lists, multiple tables, straddles and long-term profit statistics are 
postponed. 
12. What Is Intentionally Postponed 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Native mobile apps 
Spotify 
Dedicated Chromecast and AirPlay integration 
Several administrators controlling one game 
Premium voice packs and voice commands 
Friends, feeds, achievements and seasons 
Advanced statistics and financial player profiles 
Complete offline use on every device 
Payment processing 
Advanced cash-game options 
These features can be added later without changing the central idea. The first version should prove that Poker Night 
can organise a group, create a practical tournament from real chips, run it reliably and display it clearly. 
13. Example Poker Night 
Daniel creates “Friday Poker” for eight people, with a 15 buy-in, a 3.5-hour duration and rebuys until Level 6. He 
chooses an unnumbered chip set with white, red, blue and black chips and ranks them by availability. 
Poker Night recommends values for each colour, a starting stack, the chips in each stack, 15-minute levels and a 
complete blind structure. Daniel checks the proposal and publishes the game. Six members choose Going, one 
chooses Going +1 and one chooses Maybe. 
On Friday, the guest opens the link, selects the inviter and claims the guest slot. Daniel confirms everyone and accepts 
random seating. He opens TV Mode on the television and selects it as the voice device. 
During Level 6, one player is eliminated and receives a rebuy. When the level ends, Poker Night pauses. Daniel records 
two add-ons, follows the suggested chip exchanges and confirms that the big blind ante begins next. The game is 
running twenty-five minutes late, so Poker Night offers shorter future levels. Daniel previews and accepts the change. 
When nine players would remain in a larger two-table example, the app would redraw the final table. In this eight-player 
game, it continues on the original table. Daniel records the final order and publishes the podium. The group history 
updates, but nobody sees the prize amounts. 
What the first version must feel like 
A host who understands a normal home poker game should be able to create and run a tournament without 
understanding software architecture or tournament mathematics. The system explains its recommendation, and the 
host stays in charge. 
7 
POKER NIGHT 
Poker Night MVP — Technical Specification 
MVP Technical Specification 
Implementation-ready requirements for the reduced-cost web-first product 
MVP Scope v2.0 
Web-first MVP • One administrator • Tournament + minimal cash mode • No 
Spotify 
1 
Contents 
Poker Night MVP — Technical Specification 
1. Document purpose and product boundaries 
2. Final MVP scope 
3. Roles and permissions 
4. System architecture 
5. Domain model and data ownership 
6. Tournament setup engine 
7. Chip inventory and stack generation 
8. Blind, level and ante generation 
9. Prize and organizer calculations 
10. Invitations, guests and check-in 
11. Live tournament operations 
12. Seating and final-table logic 
13. TV Mode and voice announcements 
14. Chat, polls and notifications 
15. Game history and basic statistics 
16. Minimal cash-game module 
17. Screen-by-screen specification 
18. API contract 
19. Realtime event contract 
20. Offline recovery and conflict rules 
21. Validation, errors and edge cases 
22. Security and privacy 
23. Testing and acceptance criteria 
24. Deployment and operations 
25. Deferred features and future phases 
2 
Poker Night MVP — Technical Specification 
1. Document Purpose and Product Boundaries 
This document is the implementation source of truth for the Poker Night MVP. It describes what must be built, what 
must not be built, how users move through the product, how data is stored, and how the tournament calculations 
behave. When a requirement appears ambiguous, the later and more specific rule in this document takes priority. 
Core principle 
The administrator chooses the event. Poker Night proposes a playable tournament from the real chips, confirmed 
attendance and target duration. The administrator remains in control and must confirm all changes that affect play. 
1.1 Product objective 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Provide one responsive website/PWA that works on phones, tablets, computers and TV browsers. 
Allow a single administrator to create and operate private No Limit Texas Hold’em tournaments. 
Allow registered players to RSVP, check in, use chat and polls, receive notifications and view the live game. 
Allow guests to check in through a web code without creating an account. 
Generate stacks, blinds, level length, chip composition, ante timing and payouts from practical inputs. 
Provide a separate minimal cash-game tracker. 
Keep the active tournament recoverable on the administrator device if the connection or browser fails. 
1.2 Explicit non-goals for this MVP 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No Spotify integration. 
No native iOS or Android applications; the PWA is the launch client. 
No dedicated Chromecast, AirPlay or casting SDK integration. Users may open TV Mode directly or mirror the 
browser themselves. 
No multiple administrators controlling one game. 
No complex role hierarchy or financial permission system. 
No friends system, public social feed, achievements, advanced seasons or advanced analytics. 
No real-money payment processing and no paid/unpaid tracking. 
No automatic hand tracking, card recognition, dealer rotation or pot calculation. 
No full multi-device offline operation. Only the administrator’s active game is locally recoverable. 
No continuous high-complexity tournament simulation. Live recommendations use a lightweight recalculation at 
level boundaries or on request. 
2. Final MVP Scope 
Module 
Included in MVP 
Not included 
Platform 
Responsive PWA, web authentication, 
group and game pages 
Native mobile apps 
Roles 
Admin, registered player, guest 
Tournament 
Adaptive setup, timer, live controls, 
seating, rebuys, add-ons, payouts 
Assistant admin, moderator, financial 
roles 
Hand tracking or automatic rulings 
Social 
Group chat, polls, in-app/browser 
notifications 
TV 
Read-only web page opened with 
code/link 
Friends, feed, media gallery, 
achievements 
Dedicated casting SDKs 
3 
Poker Night MVP — Technical Specification 
Voice 
Standard English browser speech 
announcements 
Premium voice packs or voice commands 
History 
Group game history and basic player 
aggregate stats 
Detailed personal finance history or 
graphs 
Cash game 
Fixed blinds, players, buy-ins, top-ups, 
cash-outs, reconciliation 
Offline 
Admin local save and restore 
Advanced cash rules, multiple tables, 
waiting lists 
Offline player/guest/TV joining and sync 
Figure 1 — Reduced-scope system architecture 
3. Roles and Permissions 
3.1 Administrator 
The administrator is a registered user and the only person who can create, edit and operate a game. Each tournament 
or cash session has exactly one administrator in the MVP. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Create and edit groups, tournaments, cash sessions, chip sets and presets. 
Publish invitations, create polls and moderate group chat. 
Confirm guests, check in any participant and assign or confirm seats. 
Start, pause, resume and finish the clock. 
Record eliminations, rebuys, re-entries, add-ons and knockouts. 
Accept or reject live structure recommendations and edit future levels. 
See all private calculations, including organizer amount and payout amounts. 
Correct or undo operational actions before the game is locked. 
3.2 Registered player 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Join a group with its code or invitation link. 
Respond with Going, Maybe, Can’t Come, or Going +1/+2/+3/+4. 
Change RSVP until one hour before the scheduled start. 
Check in and see table/seat after confirmation. 
Use group and tournament chat, answer polls and receive notifications. 
View live public game information, including Prize Pool during the game. 
View completed podium and basic aggregate statistics without money values. 
3.3 Guest 
 
 
 
Open the shared tournament web code/link/QR without an account. 
Select the registered inviter and an available guest slot. 
Enter a display name and request check-in. 
4 
Poker Night MVP — Technical Specification 
5 
 Receive administrator confirmation, table and seat. 
 View timer, blinds, ante, announcements and seat information. 
 Cannot use chat, polls, notifications or permanent group features without registering. 
Action Admin Registered player Guest 
Create/edit game Yes No No 
Operate timer Yes No No 
Record rebuy/add
on/elimination 
Yes No No 
RSVP May edit any Own response Guest slot only 
Check in Any participant Self Self request 
Chat and polls Yes Yes No 
View live prize pool Yes Yes Yes 
View payout amounts Yes No No 
4. System Architecture 
4.1 Recommended implementation pattern 
The MVP should be a responsive Progressive Web App backed by a managed cloud database with authentication, 
realtime subscriptions and browser push notifications. Supabase or Firebase are acceptable. The tournament engine 
must be implemented once as a shared, versioned module and invoked by the server and administrator client with 
deterministic inputs. 
Layer Responsibility Suggested technology 
Client Admin, player, guest and TV responsive 
views 
React/Next.js or equivalent PWA 
Backend Auth, validation, data persistence, 
notifications, realtime fan-out 
Supabase/Firebase or small Node 
backend 
Database Groups, games, participants, structures, 
actions, chat, polls 
PostgreSQL when using Supabase; 
Firestore otherwise 
Realtime Broadcast authoritative game state to 
online clients 
Database subscriptions or WebSocket 
channel 
Local recovery Persist administrator game snapshot and 
queued actions 
IndexedDB 
Voice Speak cached announcement text in 
English 
Browser SpeechSynthesis API 
4.2 Authoritative state 
The cloud record is authoritative while the administrator is online. The administrator client also stores the latest game 
snapshot and every local action in IndexedDB. If the browser refreshes or temporarily loses connectivity, the clock and 
controls continue from the local snapshot. Player, guest and TV clients require an online connection and show a stale
state banner if updates stop. 
4.3 Timekeeping model 
Poker Night MVP — Technical Specification 
Never decrement and persist the timer every second. Persist timestamps and derive the displayed remaining time. 
remainingSeconds = max(0, pausedRemainingSeconds - elapsedSinceResume) 
When running: 
elapsedSinceResume = serverNow - resumedAt 
When paused: 
remainingSeconds = pausedRemainingSeconds 
Every client corrects local display drift from the latest authoritative server timestamp. 
5. Domain Model and Data Ownership 
Figure 2 — High-level entity relationships 
5.1 Core entities 
Entity 
Purpose and minimum fields 
users 
Registered administrators and players. Fields: id, name, email, 
avatar_url, locale, created_at, status. 
6 
Poker Night MVP — Technical Specification 
7 
groups Private poker groups. Fields: id, owner_user_id, name, 
join_code, code_rotated_at, created_at. 
group_memberships User membership in a group. MVP role is admin when owner, 
otherwise player. Fields: group_id, user_id, status, joined_at. 
games Tournament or cash session header. Fields: id, group_id, 
admin_user_id, type, name, scheduled_at, location, status, 
public_code, settings_json, revision. 
participants One person in one game. Supports registered users and guests. 
Fields: id, game_id, user_id nullable, guest_id nullable, RSVP, 
check_in_state, table_no, seat_no, status, finish_position. 
guests Temporary person linked to an inviter and slot. Fields: id, 
game_id, inviter_participant_id, slot_no, name, 
confirmation_state. 
chip_sets Reusable chip definition. Fields: id, group_id, name, 
inventory_mode, chips_json. 
tournament_structures Generated proposal and accepted structure. Fields: game_id, 
engine_version, input_json, starting_stack, levels_json, 
chip_plan_json, predicted_finish_range. 
game_actions Append-only audit log. Fields: id, game_id, sequence, 
actor_user_id, type, payload_json, created_at, 
reversed_by_action_id. 
chat_messages Group or game message. Fields: id, scope_type, scope_id, 
author_user_id, body, created_at, deleted_at. 
polls / poll_options / poll_votes Simple single-choice or multi-choice group polls. 
notifications User notification inbox and browser-push state. 
cash_transactions Chip-value records only: BUY_IN, TOP_UP or CASH_OUT. 
They do not represent payment status. 
game_results Completed podium, paid places privately, knockout count and 
summary statistics. 
5.2 Data visibility projections 
Never send the same full game object to every role. Build explicit projections: admin projection, registered-player 
projection, guest projection and TV projection. Private fields such as organizer percentage, organizer amount, payout 
amounts, rebuy/add-on identities and cash reconciliation must be omitted at the API level, not merely hidden in the 
interface. 
6. Tournament Setup Engine 
 
Figure 3 — Complete tournament user flow 
Poker Night MVP — Technical Specification 
8 
6.1 Required setup inputs 
Field Type and validation Default 
Tournament name 1–80 characters Poker Night + date 
Date/time Future local date/time Required 
Location 0–160 characters Optional 
Expected players Integer ≥2, from RSVP or admin override Going responses + guests 
Target duration 3, 3.5, 4, 4.5, 5, 5.5 or 6 hours 3.5 hours 
Buy-in Positive number; no currency symbol in 
game UI 
Required 
KO bounty Off or positive amount displayed as buy-in 
+ bounty 
Off 
Rebuys Enabled/disabled, closing level, unlimited 
or limit 
On, end of Level 6, unlimited 
Add-on Enabled/disabled and price only On, price = buy-in, max 1/player 
Ante Off, big blind ante, individual ante Off; big blind ante recommended if 
enabled 
Organizer percentage 0–100, private Group preset or 0 
Chip set Saved, exact inventory or quick inventory Required 
6.2 Preset matching 
Before starting from zero, the system searches the administrator’s presets. A matching preset is suggested when buy
in, KO setting, target duration, expected attendance, rebuy/add-on settings and chip set are sufficiently close. If two 
presets match, show both and explain the differences. A preset supplies settings only; the engine always regenerates 
the structure using current attendance and chips. 
6.3 Generation workflow 
1. Normalize chip denominations and verify that no two colours share a value. 
2. Estimate legal opening blind candidates from the smallest practical denominations. 
3. For each candidate, calculate a starting stack and target big-blind depth appropriate to duration and field size. 
4. Estimate total chips after expected rebuys and add-ons. 
5. Choose one level duration from 10, 15 or 20 minutes as the default for the whole event. 
6. Calculate the approximate number of levels available inside the target playing duration. 
7. Generate a smooth big-blind curve and snap every level to a chip-compatible amount. 
8. Select a simple payable small blind, usually 40–50% of the big blind but not necessarily exactly half. 
9. Add the approved ante from the configured level and recalculate pressure. 
10. Generate starting, rebuy, add-on and colour-up chip plans. 
11. Calculate expected finish range and payout proposal. 
12. Return proposal, warnings and alternatives for administrator confirmation. 
7. Chip Inventory and Stack Generation 
Poker Night MVP — Technical Specification 
7.1 Inventory modes 
Mode 
Admin input 
Guarantee 
Saved 
Select an existing exact or quick chip set 
Same guarantee as saved mode 
Exact 
Colour, value and exact quantity for each 
chip 
Quick numbered 
Colours, printed values, rank from most to 
least available 
Engine must not exceed inventory 
Provisional; admin confirms availability 
Quick unnumbered 
Colours and availability rank; engine 
proposes unique values 
7.2 Stack objectives 
 
Provisional; admin confirms mapping and 
quantities 
Starting stack value and opening blinds must be solved together; there is no unconditional 5,000 minimum. 
 
 
 
 
 
Provide useful early depth without creating unnecessarily huge physical stacks. 
Use enough low chips to post early blinds without constant change. 
Reserve inventory for expected rebuys, one add-on per player and later colour-ups. 
Prefer visually countable groups and few denominations per stack. 
Never give two chip colours the same value. 
7.3 Constructible stack search 
For each candidate total stack S: 
enumerate practical combinations of active denominations 
reject combinations that exceed per-colour inventory reserve 
score = 
early_blind_payability 
+ counting_simplicity 
+ stack_aesthetics 
+ rebuy_reserve_health 
+ colour_up_efficiency - excessive_chip_count 
Choose the highest-scoring valid combination. 
7.4 Rebuy stack 
A rebuy is available only after elimination and has exactly the same total value as the original starting stack. Its physical 
composition may change. At later levels, use fewer obsolete small chips and more medium/high chips while keeping 
enough chips to post the current blinds easily. 
7.5 Chip exchanges 
The system provides direct instructions such as “exchange 20 white chips for 2 blue chips.” Exact exchanges are 
preferred. When a small remainder cannot be exchanged exactly, the MVP default is to round the player upward and 
add the resulting small increase to total chips in play. A formal chip race is an advanced option, not the default. 
9 
Poker Night MVP — Technical Specification 
10 
8. Blind, Level and Ante Generation 
8.1 Level length 
Every level is exactly 10, 15 or 20 minutes. The generated structure should normally use one duration throughout. 
During play the administrator may accept a recommendation that changes future levels to another allowed duration. The 
active level is never changed. 
8.2 Starting depth model 
targetStartingBB = clamp( 
    125 
  + 28 * (targetHours - 3.5) 
  - 2.5 * max(0, expectedPlayers - 8), 
  80, 
  240 
) 
 
candidateStartingStack = practicalRound(openingBB * targetStartingBB) 
 
The constants are configuration values, not UI settings, and must be calibrated with test simulations. 
8.3 Final blind target 
expectedTotalChips = startingStack * expectedPlayers 
                   + startingStack * expectedRebuyCount 
                   + addOnStack * expectedAddOnCount 
 
targetFinalBB = expectedTotalChips / (2 * targetHeadsUpAverageBB) 
where targetHeadsUpAverageBB defaults to 15. 
8.4 Blind curve 
rawBB(level i) = openingBB * growthFactor^i 
 
growthFactor = (targetFinalBB / openingBB)^(1 / max(1, plannedLevels - 1)) 
 
For each raw value: 
  snap to a legal, easy-to-post amount 
  enforce monotonic increase 
  avoid unreasonable jumps 
  choose a practical small blind near 40–50% of BB 
  allow values such as 20/50 or 1200/2500 when easier with the chips. 
8.5 Ante 
 Default when enabled: big blind ante equal to the current big blind. 
 Default activation: after the rebuy period, normally the first level after Level 6. 
 Big blind ante remains active short-handed and heads-up by default. 
 Individual ante candidate = big blind divided by expected table size, snapped to a practical chip value. 
 Enabling an ante triggers a full remaining-duration recalculation before confirmation. 
8.6 Live speed-up and slow-down 
At a level boundary or when the administrator requests recalculation, compare actual players remaining with the 
expected curve and estimate the new finish. When the difference exceeds 20 minutes, offer a recommendation. Nothing 
changes automatically. 
Action Permitted changes Restriction 
Poker Night MVP — Technical Specification 
11 
Speed up 20→15, 15→10, activate approved ante, 
increase future blinds 
Starts next level only 
Slow down 10→15, 15→20, insert intermediate future 
level, soften growth, delay ante 
Never remove a level 
Manual edit Edit a future blind or duration and preview 
finish impact 
Cannot edit completed/active level 
9. Prize and Organizer Calculations 
9.1 Contribution rules 
 Regular buy-in component, rebuys, re-entries and add-ons contribute to the calculation. 
 KO bounty money is excluded. In 15 + 5, only 15 contributes to the regular prize pool. 
 Poker Night records game contributions for calculation but does not record whether cash was paid. 
 During play, players may see the total Estimated Prize Pool and then Prize Pool after settlement. 
 After the game, players see paid positions/podium but no money amounts. 
9.2 Organizer amount rounding 
grossEligible = sum(regular entry + rebuy + re-entry + add-on components) 
targetOrganizer = grossEligible * organizerPercentage 
 
Select organizerAmount nearest to targetOrganizer such that: 
  prizePool = grossEligible - organizerAmount 
  prizePool is divisible by 10 
If equally near, choose the lower organizerAmount. 
 
Example: gross 165, target 16.5 -> choose 15, prize pool 150. 
9.3 Paid places 
The number of paid places is a combination of unique players and prize pool. The engine should generally pay around 
15–25% of unique players, subject to a meaningful lowest prize. It may pay two places for small fields/pools, three for 
medium games and four or more for larger games. The administrator may override. 
9.4 Payout weights and rounding 
Create descending raw weights: 
  weight_i = exp(-lambda * i), i starting at 0 
Normalize weights to the prize pool. 
Use lambda calibrated to approximate: 
  2 places: ~73/27 
  3 places: ~57/30/13 
  4 places: ~56/30/10/4 
 
Round every displayed payout to a multiple of 10. 
Protect the lowest paid place, then second/third balance. 
First place absorbs the final 10-unit reconciliation. 
Never generate a payout ending in 5. 
10. Invitations, Guests and Check-in 
10.1 RSVP choices 
 Going 
 Maybe 
Can’t Come 
Poker Night MVP — Technical Specification 
 
 
 
 
 
Going +1 
Going +2 
Going +3 
Going +4 
The response is one combined option. Going +2 means the registered player plus two guests, for three confirmed 
people. RSVP may be changed until one hour before the scheduled start. 
10.2 Guest web flow 
1. Guest opens the tournament code, link or QR page. 
2. Guest chooses “Join as guest.” 
3. Guest selects the registered person who invited them. 
4. Guest selects one available guest slot attached to that inviter. 
5. Guest enters a name and submits check-in. 
6. The slot becomes reserved; duplicate selection is blocked. 
7. Administrator confirms or rejects the guest. 
8. After confirmation, guest receives table and seat and limited live access. 
10.3 Registration closing 
Late registration closes permanently when the rebuy level ends, normally after Level 6. No player or guest can be 
added after that point. A late player added before closing receives a fresh full starting stack and a system
recommended table/seat that the administrator confirms. 
11. Live Tournament Operations 
12 
Figure 4 — Tournament state machine 
11.1 Admin control screen 
Poker Night MVP — Technical Specification 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Large clock with Start, Pause, Resume and Next Level. 
Current blinds/ante, next level and current player count. 
Participant list with Check in, Eliminate, Rebuy, Add-on and Undo actions. 
Tables and seats with pending move recommendations. 
Estimated finish and Recalculate button. 
Speed Up, Slow Down and Edit Future Structure buttons. 
Announcements panel and TV link/code. 
Persistent offline/recovery indicator. 
11.2 Rebuy-period closing flow 
1. When the last rebuy level reaches zero, the clock pauses automatically. 
2. Rebuys and late registration close. 
3. No fixed break countdown is used. 
4. Show final eligible rebuy actions, recommended add-on value, add-on selection for each active player, chip 
exchanges and ante confirmation. 
5. Administrator records final rebuys and up to one add-on per active player. 
6. Recalculate total chips, prize pool and future finish estimate. 
7. Administrator confirms settlement and manually starts the next level. 
11.3 Elimination and undo 
Only the administrator records an elimination. The action marks the player eliminated, captures the position and 
optional single knockout recipient, and updates remaining players. Before another dependent action makes reversal 
unsafe, the administrator can Undo. Otherwise use Correct Result, which appends a compensating audit action; never 
delete audit history. 
11.4 Lightweight live recommendations 
At every level end, calculate actual remaining players, average stack, average big blinds and estimated finish. If 
estimated finish differs from target by more than 20 minutes, show a non-blocking recommendation. The administrator 
may ignore it. The app never silently changes blinds, duration or ante. 
12. Seating and Final-table Logic 
12.1 Initial seating 
The administrator chooses Fully Random, Manual, Keep Guests with Inviter, or Separate Guests from Inviter. Default 
table capacity is nine. Ten or more checked-in participants create multiple tables automatically. 
12.2 Table balancing 
When tables differ by more than one active player, recommend a move. The administrator sees the source player, 
target table and target seat, physically completes the move, then confirms. Only after confirmation does the system 
update the seat map. 
12.3 Final table 
When nine players remain and the game previously used multiple tables, pause and create a complete random redraw 
for all nine seats plus a random initial dealer-button position. The administrator confirms seating, then resumes. If the 
game began on one table, no redraw is required. The app does not track dealer movement afterward. 
13 
13. TV Mode and Voice Announcements 
Poker Night MVP — Technical Specification 
13.1 TV Mode 
TV Mode is a read-only web page opened with the tournament code or direct link. It may be opened on several 
displays. The MVP does not implement casting SDKs; users can open it on a TV browser or mirror the page manually. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tournament name and state 
Large timer 
Current blinds and ante 
Next level 
Players remaining 
Average stack and average BB 
Estimated Prize Pool before settlement and Prize Pool afterward 
Break/settlement messages 
Visual announcements 
Final-table redraw and completed podium 
Never show organizer percentage, organizer amount, individual payouts, rebuy/add-on counts, transaction identities, 
admin controls or private statistics. 
13.2 Voice 
The administrator manually selects the one browser/device that plays announcements. Use the browser’s standard 
English speech voice. Other connected screens remain silent. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tournament starts 
New level 
Five minutes remaining 
One minute remaining 
Rebuys closed 
Add-ons available 
Final table 
Initial/final-table dealer assignment 
Winner 
Elimination names are optional per tournament and disabled by default. Voice commands are deferred. 
14. Chat, Polls and Notifications 
14.1 Chat 
 
 
 
 
 
One group chat and optional tournament-specific chat thread. 
Registered members only; guests cannot read or write chat. 
Plain text only in the MVP, maximum 1,000 characters. 
Admin can delete a message; deleted messages remain in audit metadata but are hidden from users. 
Realtime delivery, unread count and basic spam rate limit. 
14.2 Polls 
 
 
 
 
Admin creates single-choice or multi-choice polls with 2–10 options. 
Use for date, time, buy-in, KO setting, duration, location or custom questions. 
Registered members vote; guests cannot vote. 
Admin closes a poll manually. Results may suggest a matching tournament preset. 
14 
14.3 Notifications 
Poker Night MVP — Technical Specification 
Provide in-app notification inbox and browser push when permission is granted. If push is unavailable or refused, the in
app inbox is the fallback. Email and SMS are not required. 
Trigger 
Recipients 
Tournament published 
Group members 
Example 
Friday Poker is open for RSVP 
RSVP deadline approaching 
No response / Maybe players 
Guest confirmed 
Inviter and guest while page open 
RSVP closes in one hour 
Guest 1 is confirmed 
Seat assigned 
Checked-in participant 
Poll created/closing 
Registered members 
Table B, Seat 4 
Vote on the buy-in 
Game starting 
Going participants 
Important admin announcement 
Active participants 
Tournament starts soon 
Rebuy period ends after this level 
15. Game History and Basic Statistics 
The MVP keeps a group-level history of completed tournaments and cash sessions. It does not provide a detailed 
personal game ledger or financial history. 
15.1 Completed game history 
 
 
 
 
 
Date, name, type and attendance 
Podium/all paid positions without payout amounts for players 
Duration and final level 
Basic setup summary 
Admin-only private calculation summary 
15.2 Basic player aggregate statistics 
 
 
 
 
 
Games played 
Wins 
Podium finishes 
Average finish 
Knockouts 
No ROI, profit, investment, winnings, rebuy/add-on history, graphs, streaks or advanced filters. Public/player views 
contain no money amounts after completion. 
16. Minimal Cash-game Module 
16.1 Included 
 
Figure 5 — Minimal cash-game flow 
Create a cash session with name, date, location, fixed small blind, fixed big blind and optional buy-in limits. 
 
15 
Add registered players or guests and assign seats. 
Poker Night MVP — Technical Specification 
16 
 Start a session-duration counter; there are no levels or blind increases. 
 Admin records each player’s initial buy-in chip value and later top-ups. 
 Admin records final cash-out chip value when the player leaves or at session end. 
 Reconcile total bought chip value against total cashed-out chip value. 
 Save a private admin session summary and a non-financial group history item. 
16.2 Excluded 
 No waiting list, multiple cash tables, straddles, bomb pots, run-it-twice controls or cash voice announcements. 
 No long-term cash profit/loss statistics for players. 
 No payment tracking. Values represent chips issued and returned, not confirmation that money changed hands. 
16.3 Reconciliation 
totalIssued = sum(initial buy-ins + top-ups) 
totalReturned = sum(cash-outs) 
difference = totalReturned - totalIssued 
 
If difference != 0: 
  block final confirmation until admin either corrects records 
  or saves an explicit unresolved-difference note. 
17. Screen-by-screen Specification 
Screen Required behaviour 
Welcome / authentication Sign in, register, enter group code, enter tournament code. 
Preserve intended destination after authentication. 
Home Upcoming games, groups, notifications, create button for admin, 
current active game shortcut. 
Group Upcoming/past games, members, chat, polls, presets, group 
code. 
Create tournament Preset suggestion, basic inputs, chip set, optional rules, 
generate button. 
Structure review Starting stack, chip breakdown, level table, ante, predicted 
finish, warnings, Regenerate, Edit, Confirm. 
Invitation / RSVP Single RSVP option, guest count embedded, deadline, share 
code/link/QR. 
Check-in Going/guest list, pending guest requests, confirm, assign 
seating. 
Admin live dashboard Clock, levels, participant actions, settlement, structure change, 
seating, announcements, recovery state. 
Player live view Timer, blinds, next level, players remaining, average stack, prize 
pool during game, seat, announcements. 
Guest live view Same limited live information plus own seat; no 
chat/polls/notifications. 
TV Mode Large read-only display, no navigation or controls. 
Rebuy/add-on settlement Final rebuys, add-on value, one checkbox per active player, 
Poker Night MVP — Technical Specification 
17 
exchanges, ante, prize pool, Confirm and Continue. 
Final-table redraw Nine seats, dealer position, Confirm Seating. 
Complete tournament Enter finishing order, verify podium, admin private payout 
summary, publish result. 
Cash session Fixed blinds, seated players, timer, buy-in/top-up/cash-out 
controls, reconciliation. 
History / stats Group history and five basic aggregate statistics. 
18. API Contract 
The exact transport can be REST or framework server actions, but these logical operations and role checks are 
required. Use idempotency keys for game actions that could be double-submitted. 
Endpoint Purpose Permission 
POST /auth/register Create account Public 
POST /groups Create group and join code Authenticated admin 
POST /groups/{id}/join Join by code Authenticated player 
GET /groups/{id} Role-specific group projection Member 
POST /groups/{id}/chat Send message Registered member 
POST /groups/{id}/polls Create poll Admin 
POST /polls/{id}/votes Vote Registered member 
POST /games Create tournament/cash session Admin 
PATCH /games/{id} Edit draft/published fields Admin 
POST /games/{id}/generate Generate tournament proposal Admin 
POST /games/{id}/publish Publish invitation Admin 
POST /games/{id}/rsvp Set own RSVP Registered player 
POST /public/games/{code}/guests Reserve guest slot Public guest 
POST 
/games/{id}/participants/{pid}/confirm 
Confirm guest/check-in Admin 
POST /games/{id}/actions Append operational action Admin 
POST /games/{id}/structure/recalculate Preview future changes Admin 
POST /games/{id}/structure/accept Accept future structure revision Admin 
GET /public/games/{code}/tv TV projection Public with code 
GET /public/games/{code}/guest Guest projection Guest session 
Poker Night MVP — Technical Specification 
18 
POST /games/{id}/complete Validate and complete Admin 
GET /groups/{id}/history Group history Member 
18.1 Game action payload 
{ 
  "idempotencyKey": "uuid", 
  "expectedRevision": 42, 
  "type": "ELIMINATE_PLAYER", 
  "payload": { 
    "participantId": "...", 
    "knockoutParticipantId": "... optional" 
  }, 
  "clientOccurredAt": "ISO-8601" 
} 
Reject with HTTP 409 when expectedRevision does not match. Because only one admin exists, conflicts should be 
rare; nevertheless, browser retries and restored offline actions can cause duplicates. 
19. Realtime Event Contract 
Event Payload purpose 
game.snapshot Complete role-safe state after join/reconnect 
clock.changed start, pause, resume, level transition 
participant.changed RSVP, check-in, seat, elimination 
structure.changed accepted future structure revision 
prize_pool.changed estimated/confirmed total only for public roles 
announcement.created visual text and optional speak flag 
chat.created new registered-member message 
poll.changed poll opened, closed or vote totals 
notification.created new inbox item 
game.completed final non-financial result projection 
Every event includes game/group ID, monotonically increasing revision/sequence, server timestamp and a projection 
safe for the recipient role. On missed sequence, the client requests a full snapshot. 
20. Offline Recovery and Conflict Rules 
20.1 Local persistence 
 Write the current admin game snapshot to IndexedDB after every accepted action. 
 Store the running clock as timestamps, not a second-by-second counter. 
 Store unsynchronised actions with idempotency keys and expected revision. 
 On reopen, offer “Restore active tournament” with last saved local time and state. 
 When connection returns, submit queued actions in order and stop on first conflict. 
Poker Night MVP — Technical Specification 
19 
20.2 Online viewers 
Player, guest and TV views show the last received state plus a visible “Connection interrupted” banner. The timer may 
continue visually from the last trusted timestamp, but other values are frozen until reconnection. New devices cannot 
join while the backend is unavailable. 
20.3 Recovery safety 
If the server game advanced after the local snapshot, do not overwrite it. Show a comparison and require the 
administrator to choose the server version or manually reapply missing actions. Never merge two different clock states 
automatically. 
21. Validation, Errors and Edge Cases 
Scenario Required behaviour 
No legal blind with chips Reject proposal and show which denomination is missing or 
propose new values for unnumbered chips. 
Quick inventory shortage Show required quantities; let admin choose fewer players, 
another stack, another chip mapping or confirm more chips 
exist. 
Duplicate guest slot First reservation wins temporarily; second guest must choose 
another slot. 
Guest no-show Admin removes confirmation before start; seating regenerates or 
seat remains empty until confirmed. 
RSVP changed after deadline Block player change; admin may edit before late registration 
closes. 
Player added during play Allowed only before rebuy period closes; full fresh stack; 
recalculate and offer future changes. 
Rebuy requested for active player Block; rebuy only after elimination. 
Second add-on Block; maximum one add-on per active player. 
Elimination mistake Undo if safe, otherwise compensating correction action. 
Level reaches zero while offline Admin client transitions locally and queues the transition. 
Browser sleeps Wake from timestamps; do not add sleep duration twice. 
TV opens old code Show invalid/expired code; never expose prior private data. 
Prize pool not divisible by 10 Adjust private organizer amount according to nearest valid rule. 
Payout rounding mismatch First place absorbs final 10-unit reconciliation. 
Nine-player final table trigger repeated Use idempotent final-table state; create only one redraw. 
Cash reconciliation mismatch Require correction or explicit unresolved note before completion. 
Notification permission denied Use in-app notification inbox only. 
Chat abuse Rate limit, admin delete, sanitize text and block markup/scripts. 
22. Security and Privacy 
Poker Night MVP — Technical Specification 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Use managed authentication, secure password reset and verified email where supported. 
All authorization is enforced server-side. Never trust a role or game ID supplied only by the client. 
Tournament codes are random, case-insensitive and exclude ambiguous characters. Rate-limit code lookup. 
Guest sessions use scoped, expiring tokens tied to one guest record and one tournament. 
Sanitize all chat, poll and name input. Store plain text in MVP. 
Do not expose organizer amount, payout amounts or contribution identities in player/guest/TV responses. 
Use HTTPS, secure cookies/token storage, CSRF protections where applicable and database row-level security. 
Keep append-only game actions for audit and restore. Corrections create new actions. 
Provide account deletion and group member removal. Retain anonymized completed-game integrity where legally 
appropriate. 
Apply rate limits to login, code lookup, guest reservation, chat and voting. 
23. Testing and Acceptance Criteria 
23.1 Engine tests 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Property test: every generated blind and ante is payable with active chip denominations. 
Property test: starting and rebuy stack totals equal their declared value. 
Exact-inventory test: total allocated chips never exceed configured quantities. 
Property test: blind sequence is strictly increasing and contains no removed level after an accepted revision. 
Property test: level duration is always 10, 15 or 20. 
Property test: payouts total exactly the Prize Pool and all payouts are multiples of 10. 
Property test: KO bounty money never enters regular prize pool or organizer calculation. 
Simulation test: generated finish estimate falls within a reasonable calibrated range for representative fields. 
23.2 User-flow acceptance scenarios 
Scenario 
Pass condition 
Create and run standard tournament 
Admin creates 8-player, 3.5-hour tournament, confirms 
generated structure, publishes, checks in players, runs timer, 
closes rebuys, records add-ons, finishes and publishes podium. 
Guest check-in 
Player RSVP is Going +2; both guests use code, choose distinct 
slots, admin confirms, seats appear. 
Live speed adjustment 
At level end projected finish is 30 minutes late; admin previews 
Speed Up, accepts 15→10 starting next level, TV and player 
views update. 
Offline recovery 
Admin loses connection, pauses and records elimination locally, 
reloads browser, restores game and later synchronizes without 
duplicate actions. 
TV privacy 
TV code shows live game but response payload contains no 
organizer, payout or participant contribution data. 
Cash reconciliation 
Admin records two buy-ins, one top-up and two cash-outs; 
completion succeeds only when totals reconcile or note is 
saved. 
23.3 Definition of done 
 
20 
All required screens work responsively at common phone, tablet, desktop and TV widths. 
Poker Night MVP — Technical Specification 
 
 
 
 
 
Core flows pass automated and manual acceptance tests. 
No private financial fields appear in player, guest or TV network responses. 
Admin can restore an active game after browser refresh and temporary connection loss. 
Production deployment, environment configuration, database migrations and seed/demo data are documented. 
Source code, setup instructions and basic architecture notes are delivered. 
24. Deployment and Operations 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Separate development and production environments. 
Environment variables for backend URL, auth keys, push credentials and error monitoring. 
Automated database migrations or documented schema deployment. 
HTTPS production domain and PWA manifest/service worker. 
Basic error monitoring and structured server logs without sensitive payloads. 
Daily managed database backups when available. 
Seed group and demo tournament for acceptance testing. 
25. Deferred Features and Future Phases 
Deferred feature 
Reason 
Native iOS/Android apps 
Duplicate client cost; PWA proves product first. 
Spotify 
Removed from scope. 
Dedicated casting SDKs 
TV browser/link is sufficient for MVP. 
Multiple administrators 
Requires conflict resolution and complex permissions. 
Advanced tournament health simulation 
MVP uses lightweight recalculation. 
Premium voices and voice commands 
Standard English browser voice is sufficient. 
Friends, feed, achievements, seasons 
Not core to tournament operation. 
Advanced player financial statistics 
Privacy and complexity; explicitly excluded. 
Full offline multi-device sync 
High conflict and networking complexity. 
Advanced cash-game features 
Cash mode is intentionally minimal. 
Payment processing 
Regulatory and operational complexity. 
21 
</USER_REQUEST>
<ADDITIONAL_METADATA>
The current local time is: 2026-09-05T05:06:34+05:00.
</ADDITIONAL_METADATA>
<USER_SETTINGS_CHANGE>
The user changed setting `Model Selection` from None to Claude Sonnet 4.6 (Thinking). No need to comment on this change if the user doesn't ask about it. If reporting what model you are, please use a human readable name instead of the exact string.
</USER_SETTINGS_CHANGE>